@c -*- mode: texinfo -*-
\input texinfo

@c $Id: debian-el.texi,v 1.7 2008-04-12 13:10:57 psg Exp $
@c %**start of header
@setfilename info/debian-el
@settitle debian-el
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Debian-el: (debian-el). Debian-specific tools for Emacs
@end direntry

@c Version variables.
@set EDITION 1.1
@set UPDATED 24 October 2005

@ifinfo
This is Edition @value{EDITION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}, of
@cite{debian-el}.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title debian-el: Debian-specific tools for Emacs
@subtitle A manual for what's in this package.
@author Peter S. Galbraith
@end titlepage

@node Top, apt-sources, (dir), (dir)
@top The debian-el Package Setup

This manual describes the debian-el package and its
setup.  A quick descriptions of elisp files contained in this package
can be found in the file
@file{/usr/share/doc/debian-el/README.Debian}.

All packaged files are installed, setup and ready to use (they don't
override standard Emacs commands, modes, or settings).

To customize setup of all customizable packages on a finer-grain
basis, do:
@example
@kbd{M-x} customize-group @key{RET} debian-el @key{RET}
@end example

@menu
* apt-sources::                 Mode for editing apt sources.list files
* apt-utils::                   Emacs interface to APT
* debian-bug::                  Report a bug to Debian's bug tracking system
* deb-view::                    View Debian package archive files with tar-mode
* gnus-BTS::                    Access the Debian Bug Tracking System from Gnus
* pressed::                     Mode for debian-installer preseed files
@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

deb-view - View Debian package archive files with tar-mode

* deb-view configuration::      
* deb-view usage::              

@end detailmenu
@end menu

This work compiles GPL'ed documentation from the files in
/usr/share/emacs/site-lisp/debian-el/.  As a derived work from GPL'ed
works, this text is also licensed under the GPL V2 (See
/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2) and is edited by Peter S. Galbraith
@email{psg@@debian.org}.

@node apt-sources, apt-utils, Top, Top
@chapter apt-sources - Mode for editing apt sources.list files.

This mode is for editing @file{/etc/apt/sources.list} and
@file{/etc/apt/sources.list.d/*.list}, the APT (Advanced Package Tool)
configuration files found on Debian systems.

APT is a package retrieval tool for Debian; for example you could
install Emacs with the command:

@example
  apt-get install emacs21
@end example

and APT will then retrieve the package and install it for you. The
sources.list file tells APT where to look for packages. Mine looks
like this:

@example
  deb http://http.us.debian.org/debian unstable main contrib
  deb http://non-us.debian.org/debian-non-US unstable/non-US main

  deb ftp://ftp.de.debian.org/debian ../project/experimental main
@end example

This mode font-locks the file and add some things including new
source lines and modifying existing source lines.

This mode can be customized in diferent parts. You can (interactively)
change if you want blank lines around a new source line and comment
with @code{apt-sources-around-lines}. Also you can change the way that
this mode names each source line with the variable
@code{apt-sources-source-name}; if no name is entered, no comment name
will be inserted.

You can modify existing parts of the source line; check the mode
documentation for more details. Another thing that this mode can do is
to replicate an existing line (@kbd{C-c C-r}) that will be changed to
the 'deb' or 'deb-src' corresponding line. If it replicates a 'deb'
line, an identical 'deb-src' source line will be created.

@node apt-utils, debian-bug, apt-sources, Top
@chapter apt-utils - Emacs interface to APT

Start things off using e.g.:
@example
@kbd{M-x} apt-utils-show-package @key{RET} emacs21 @key{RET}
@end example

Other packages (dependencies, conflicts etc) can be navigated using
@command{apt-utils-next-package} (@key{TAB}),
@command{apt-utils-prev-package} (@key{M-TAB}),
@command{apt-utils-choose-package-link} (@key{>}) or
@command{apt-utils-follow-link} (@key{RET}). Return to the previous
package with @command{apt-utils-view-previous-package} (@key{<}).

ChangeLog and README files for the current package can easily be
accessed with, for example, @command{apt-utils-view-changelog} (@key{C}).

For normal (i.e., not virtual) packages, the information can be toggled
between `package' and `showpkg' displays using
@command{apt-utils-toggle-package-info} (@key{t}); the latter is useful
for the "Reverse Depends".

View the key bindings with describe-mode (bound to ? by default)
or use the menu.

You may alter various settings of @code{apt-utils} bu customizing the
group @code{apt-utils}.

@node debian-bug, deb-view, apt-utils, Top
@chapter debian-bug - report a bug to Debian's bug tracking system

@noindent Useful commands provided by this package:

@table @samp
@item debian-bug
Submit a Debian bug report against a package or file.

@item debian-bug-wnpp
Submit a WNPP bug report to Debian.

@item debian-bug-request-for-package
Shortcut for @code{debian-bug-wnpp} with RFP action.

@item debian-bug-intent-to-package
Shortcut for @code{debian-bug-wnpp} with ITP action (for Debian developers).

@item debian-bug-web-bugs
Browse the BTS for this package via @code{browse-url}."

@item debian-bug-web-bug
Browse the BTS for BUG-NUMBER via @code{browse-url}

@item debian-bug-web-this-bug
Browse the BTS via @code{browse-url} for the bug report number under point.

@item debian-bug-web-this-bug-under-mouse
Browse the BTS via @code{browse-url} for the bug report number under mouse.
(Normally bound to mouse-2 in some modes)

@item debian-bug-web-packages
Search Debian web page for this package via @code{browse-url}.

@item debian-bug-web-package
Search Debian web page in ARCHIVE for this package via @code{browse-url}.

@item debian-bug-get-bug-as-file
Read bug report #BUG-NUMBER as a regular file.

@item debian-bug-get-bug-as-email
Read bug report #BUG-NUMBER via Email interface.

@end table

@noindent The command @command{M-x debian-bug} prompts for required
information to start filling in the mail draft buffer.  It then allows
you to edit these fields in the mail draft buffer with a useful
menu-bar and view help text about your various options.  If the Debian
package @code{wget} is installed, you may download the list of bugs
for the affected package at that time, and download the text of a
specific bug number as well.  

@noindent The debian-bug facility depends on the reportbug package.

@node deb-view, gnus-BTS, debian-bug, Top
@chapter deb-view - View Debian package archive files with tar-mode

@noindent Author:  Rick Macdonald (rickm@@vsl.com)

deb-view presents the contents of debian package archive files for
viewing. The viewing is done with the major mode "debview", which
is derived from emacs tar-mode with a few enhancements for viewing
compressed files, HTML files and formatted man pages.  The normal
editing and saving features of tar-mode are not supported by
deb-view.

deb-view includes a command called @command{deb-find} which requires that you
have the debian distribution directories on a local or mounted
filesystem. Give it a string or regular expression and it presents a
buffer of matching deb file names.  Click with the middle mouse button
or press @key{RETURN} (or @key{C-c C-c}) and it launches deb-view on the selected
file. deb-find can be configured to use locate or find, or any other
external command. The find method passes your search specification to
egrep, whereas the locate method uses your string directly.

deb-view extracts the control.tar.gz and data.tar.gz files from
debian package and presents two buffers in a derivitive of
tar-mode. See tar-mode for info.

@noindent Optionally required programs:
@table @samp
@item nroff
for formatting man pages.
@item dpkg-deb
for old-style binary .deb files.
@item w3-mode
for viewing HTML pages.
@end table

For new-style .deb files (2.0), dpkg-deb isn't used.

@menu
* deb-view configuration::      
* deb-view usage::              
@end menu

@node deb-view configuration, deb-view usage, deb-view, deb-view
@section Configuration

deb-view is mostly unobtrusive, but does bind @key{C-d} in dired to
@command{deb-view-dired-view}.  The "debview" mode is derived from
tar-mode.el using derived.el. Compared to tar-mode, debview-mode
binds @key{q}, @key{N}, @key{W}, and re-binds @key{v}. Also, the normal editing and saving
features of tar-mode are not supported by debview mode and those
keys are disabled.

@command{deb-find} has two variables to set. @code{deb-find-method} can be "locate" or
"find". Any other value will be assumed to be an external script or
program that you supply. If you set @code{deb-find-method} to "find" then you
must also set @code{deb-find-directory} to the directory containing the
debian distribution. The find command starts at this point. I originally
used the locate option, but contrary to the man page it doesn't seem to
understand even simple regular expressions. I prefer the find option. It
uses egrep and therefore understands complex regular expressions.
You might want to bind @command{deb-find} to a special key. I use @key{C-d} like this:

@verbatim
  (define-key ctl-x-map "\C-d" 'deb-find)
@end verbatim

Note that this key is normally the brief @command{list-directory} command, a
command that I never used anyway.


@node deb-view usage,  , deb-view configuration, deb-view
@section Usage

In dired, press @key{f} or @key{e} on the dired line of the .deb file to view.
You can also use @key{C-d}, which is actually slightly faster since the
deb file isn't loaded into a buffer needlessly.

Or, execute: @command{M-x deb-view RETURN}, and enter the .deb file name
at the prompt.

Or, execute: @command{M-x deb-find RETURN}, and enter any substring of a
deb file name to search for. A buffer of matches is created.
Launch @command{deb-view} by selecting a deb file with the middle mouse button,
or @key{RETURN} or @key{C-c}. Exit this buffer with @key{q}.

You are shown two tar files in debview-mode (see tar-mode for help).
In the case of old .deb format files, the control info is shown
but not the other files of control.tar, such as install scripts.
Note that regular tar-mode commands @key{e}, @key{f} and @key{RETURN} show raw files
without any special uncompressing or formatting.
Additional features that deb-view adds to tar-mode:

@table @samp
@item q
kill both view buffers (INFO and DATA) and return to the
dired buffer if that's where you executed deb-mode.
@item v
executes deb-view-tar-view instead of tar-view, with the
additional smarts to uncompress .gz and .Z files for viewing.
@item N
Like in dired, formats man pages for viewing, with the
additional smarts to uncompress .gz and .Z man files for viewing.
@item W 
use w3-mode to view an HTML file.
@end table

To view files not supported by deb-view, such as graphics, use the
copy command (@key{c}) to copy the file to a temp directory.  You can
then do what you want to the file.

@node gnus-BTS, pressed, deb-view, Top
@chapter gnus-BTS - access the Debian Bug Tracking System from Gnus

Use this if you read a lot of debian lists in GNUS and see references
to the Bug Tracking system in them. It expects to see Bug references
in the form of (for example): "#48273", "closes: 238742" or similar
and will make them clickable.

To enable this, add the following to your @file{~/.emacs} file:

@example
(require 'gnus-BTS)
@end example

@node pressed,  , gnus-BTS, Top
@chapter preseed - major mode for debian-installer preseed files

@noindent Author:  W. Borgert <debacle@@debian.org>

A simple major-mode for editing debian-installer preseed files.  Since
such files don't always have the same extension, this mode is not
autoloaded.  Enter it by using teh command line:

@example
M-x preseed-mode
@end example
