@include macros.texi
@ifset rawfile
@chapheading Introduction to @AUCTeX{}
@raisesections
@end ifset

@ifclear rawfile
@node Introduction, Installation, Copying, top
@chapter Introduction to @AUCTeX{}
@end ifclear

@ifset rawfile
This file
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
This section of the @AUCTeX{} manual
@end ifclear
gives a brief overview of what @AUCTeX{} is.  It is @strong{not} an
attempt to document @AUCTeX{}.  Real documentation for @AUCTeX{} is
available in the
@ifset rawfile
manual, which should be available as an info file after installation.
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
rest of the manual.
@end ifclear

@section Installation

Read the
@ifset rawfile
@file{INSTALL} or @file{INSTALL.windows} file
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
section @ref{Installation}, or @ref{Installation under MS Windows},
@end ifclear
respectively for comprehensive information about how to install
@AUCTeX{}.

The installation routine tries to make the modes provided by @AUCTeX{}
the default for all supported file types.  If this does not happen in
your case, add
@lisp
(load "auctex.el" nil t t)
@end lisp
to your init file and consult the section
@ifset rawfile
about loading the package in the @file{INSTALL} file.
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
@ref{Loading the package}.
@end ifclear

If you want to change the modes for which it is operative instead of the
default, use
@example
@kbd{M-x customize-variable RET TeX-modes RET}
@end example

If you want to remove a preinstalled @AUCTeX{} completely before any of
its modes have been used,
@example
(unload-feature 'tex-site)
@end example
should accomplish that.

If you are considering upgrading @AUCTeX{}, the recent changes are
described in
@ifset rawfile
the @file{CHANGES} file.
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
@ref{Changes}.
@end ifclear

@section Features

@AUCTeX{} is a comprehensive customizable integrated environment for
writing input files for @TeX{}/@LaTeX{}/@ConTeXt{}/Texinfo using Emacs
or XEmacs.

It lets you process your source files by running @TeX{} and related
tools (such as output filters, post processors for generating indices
and bibliographies, and viewers) from inside Emacs.  @AUCTeX{} lets you
browse through the errors @TeX{} reported, while it moves the cursor
directly to the reported error, and displays some documentation for that
particular error.  This will even work when the document is spread over
several files.

One component of @AUCTeX{} that @LaTeX{} users will find attractive is
@previewlatex{}, a combination of folding and in-source previewing
that provides true ``What You See Is What You Get'' experience in your
sourcebuffer, while letting you retain full control.  @previewlatex{}
comes with its own manual, see @ref{Top, , preview-latex,
preview-latex, The @previewlatex{} Manual}.
@ifset rawfile
For more information, see further below.
@end ifset

@AUCTeX{} automatically indents your `@LaTeX{}-source', not only as you
write it --- you can also let it indent and format an entire document.
It has a special outline feature, which can greatly help you `getting an
overview' of a document.

Apart from these special features, @AUCTeX{} provides a large range of
handy Emacs macros, which in several different ways can help you write
your documents fast and painlessly.

All features of @AUCTeX{} are documented using the GNU Emacs online
documentation system.  That is, documentation for any command is just
a key click away!

@AUCTeX{} is written entirely in Emacs-Lisp, and hence you can easily
add new features for your own needs.  It has become recently a GNU
project.  @AUCTeX{} is distributed under the `GNU General Public License
Version 2'.

@section Availability

The most recent version is always available at

@flushright
@url{http://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/auctex/}
@end flushright

WWW users may want to check out the @AUCTeX{} page at

@flushright
@url{http://www.gnu.org/software/auctex/}
@end flushright

@section Contacts

Various mailing lists exist.

Send a mail with the subject ``subscribe'' to
@email{auctex-request@@gnu.org} in order to join the general discussion
list for @AUCTeX{}.  Articles should be sent to @email{auctex@@gnu.org}.
In a similar way, you can subscribe to the @email{info-auctex@@gnu.org}
list for just getting important announcements about @AUCTeX{}.  The list
@email{bug-auctex@@gnu.org} is for bug reports which you should usually
file with the @kbd{M-x TeX-submit-bug-report RET} command.

If you want to address the developers of @AUCTeX{} themselves with
technical issues, they can be found on the discussion list
@email{auctex-devel@@gnu.org}.
