It is minor mode for editing "Ruby On Rails":http://rubyonrails.org/ code with "Emacs":http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/.


h2. Features

* Navigation
  Go from unit test to model to controller to functional test to view to spec etc.
* Running tests and specs
  Run test or spec for the current model, controller, lib etc.
* Console and webserver
  Run this console and webserver in a buffer.
* Snippets
  Use snippets to speedup code writing and editing.

Try @C-h b@ to find out what key bindings are available and see @M-x customize-group <RET> rails@ for all the knobs and switches.


h2. Installation


h3. Dependencies

Before you install this package make sure the following dependencies met:

* Ruby Mode
* Inferior Ruby Mode

These are installable via the "ELPA":http://tromey.com/elpa/ or using @apt-get install ruby-elisp@.  Some Emacs distributions include them by default.


h3. Rails-minor-mode

Pull the latest version from github:

<pre><code>  git clone git://github.com/remvee/emacs-rails.git ~/.emacs.d/rails-minor-mode
</code></pre>

Hook it up in your @.emacs@ or @.emacs.d/init.el@ with something like:

<pre><code>  (add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/.emacs.d/rails-minor-mode"))
  (require 'rails)
</code></pre>

You're ready to go.


h3. Extra's

You can find HAML and SASS support via ELPA.


h4. RHTML-mode

The latest from github:

<pre><code>  git clone git://github.com/eschulte/rhtml.git ~/.emacs.d/rhtml-minor-mode
</code></pre>

Hook it up:

<pre><code>  (add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/.emacs.d/rhtml-minor-mode"))
  (require 'rhtml-mode)
</code></pre>


h4. YAML-mode

Latest from subversion repo:

<pre><code>  svn co http://svn.clouder.jp/repos/public/yaml-mode/trunk/ ~/.emacs.d/yaml-mode
</code></pre>

Hook it up:

<pre><code>  (add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/.emacs.d/yaml-mode"))
  (require 'yaml-mode)
</code></pre>


h2. Bugs

Yes!  Plenty!  And most of them known, ignored and yearning for your attention!  Please fork this repository and fix the stuff that bothers you.


h2. Credits

A big thanks to Dmitry Galinsky for starting this project.  Since then a lot of people touched it too, checkout the commit logs.